create gcbuild tool (#5726)
kyma-project/test-infra: development/gcbuild/README.md

# gcbuild

> This tool servers as an intelligent wrapper for `gcloud builds submit`. It runs remote build jobs on Google infrastructure with setting automated substitutions, that developers can use. It's built to reduce the complexity of building the Docker images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tool serves as an intelligent wrapper for `gcloud builds submit`. It runs remote build jobs on Google infrastructure with setting automated substitutions, that developers can use. It's built to reduce the complexity of building the Docker images.
```

* Provide a way to run static checks for the `cloudbuild.yaml` files
* Save the `gcloud` command outputs to separate files
* Define a set of static variables using the required config file
* Support for pushing images to different repositories with different tags when running in Prow's presubmit job

## Using config.yaml file

`gcbuild` requires a configuration file to be provided with a set of variables, which are used during the execution.
A `--config` flag is required, however only `project` field is required for program to work properly.

For more information, refer to the [config.go](./config/config.go) file.

```yaml
project: sample-project
devRegistry: dev.kyma-project.io/dev-registry
stagingBucket: gs://staging-bucket
logsBucket: gs://logs-bucket
tagTemplate: v{{ .Date }}-{{ .ShortSHA }}
```

## Building multiple variants of the same image

The tool also includes the functionality of re-using the same `cloudbuild.yaml` pipeline to concurrently build different variants of the same image.
`variants.yaml` is the file that contains pre-defined set of the same substitutions with different values.

> It's very handy when there is a requirement to build an image with different versions of the same binary, eg. for different versions of Kubernetes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's very handy when there is a requirement to build an image with different versions of the same binary, for example, for different versions of Kubernetes.
```

The file has a simple structure:
```yaml
'main':
  KUBECTL_VERSION: "1.24.4"
'1.23':
  KUBECTL_VERSION: "1.23.9"
```

To use this feature, make sure that:
* You have the `variants.yaml` file in the **same directory** as the `cloudbuild.yaml` file.

> * The substitutions you replace with the variants are defined in the `cloudbuild.yaml` file and in Dockerfile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The substitutions you replace with the variants are defined in the `cloudbuild.yaml` file and in Dockerfile.
```

> * You have the `$_VARIANT` substitution defined and used in your image tag, for example, `image:$_TAG-$_VARIANT`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have the `$_VARIANT` substitution defined and used in your image tag, for example, `image:$_TAG-$_VARIANT`.
```

# gcbuild

> This tool servers as an intelligent wrapper for `gcloud builds submit` to run remote build jobs on Google infrastructure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tool servers as an intelligent wrapper for `gcloud builds submit`. It runs remote build jobs on Google infrastructure with setting automated substitutions, that developers can use. It's built to reduce the complexity of building the Docker images.
```

> with setting automated substitutions, that developers can use. It's built generally to reduce the complexity of building our Docker images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Key features:

> * Automatically control over values and presence of required substitutions `$_TAG`, `$_REPOSITORY`, `$_VARIANT`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Automatically control values and presence of required substitutions `$_TAG`, `$_REPOSITORY`, `$_VARIANT`
```

> * Allow concurrent builds of image variants that use the same `cloudbuild.yaml` file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Allow for concurrent builds of image variants that use the same `cloudbuild.yaml` file
```

> * Provide a way to run static checks for `cloudbuild.yaml` files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Provide a way to run static checks for the `cloudbuild.yaml` files
```

> * Save `gcloud` command outputs to separate files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Save the `gcloud` command outputs to separate files
```

> * Define set of static variables using required config file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Define a set of static variables using the required config file
```

> * Support for pushing images to different repository with different tags when running in Prow's presubmit job

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Support for pushing images to different repositories with different tags when running in Prow's presubmit job
```

## Using config.yaml file

> `gcbuild` requires a configuration file to be provided with a set of variables, which are used during execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`gcbuild` requires a configuration file to be provided with a set of variables, which are used during the execution.
```

A `--config` flag is required, however only `project` field is required for program to work properly.

For more information, refer to the [config.go](./config/config.go) file.

```yaml
project: sample-project
devRegistry: dev.kyma-project.io/dev-registry
stagingBucket: gs://staging-bucket
logsBucket: gs://logs-bucket
tagTemplate: v{{ .Date }}-{{ .ShortSHA }}
```

## Building multiple variants of the same image

The tool also includes the functionality of re-using the same `cloudbuild.yaml` pipeline to concurrently build different variants of the same image.

> `variants.yaml` is the file that contains pre-defined set of same substitutions with different values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`variants.yaml` is the file that contains pre-defined set of the same substitutions with different values.
```

It's very handy when there is a requirement to build an image with different versions of the same binary, eg. for different versions of Kubernetes.

The file has a simple structure:
```yaml
'main':
  KUBECTL_VERSION: "1.24.4"
'1.23':
  KUBECTL_VERSION: "1.23.9"
```

> If you want to use this feature, you have to make sure that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use this feature, make sure that:
```

> * You have `variants.yaml` file in the **same directory**, as `cloudbuild.yaml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have the `variants.yaml` file in the **same directory** as the `cloudbuild.yaml` file.
```

> * The substitutions you replace with the variants are defined in `cloudbuild.yaml` file and in Dockerfile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The substitutions you replace with the variants are defined in the `cloudbuild.yaml` file and in Dockerfile
```

> * You have `$_VARIANT` substitution defined and used in your image tag, eg. `image:$_TAG-$_VARIANT`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have the `$_VARIANT` substitution defined and used in your image tag, for example, `image:$_TAG-$_VARIANT`
```

## Linting configuration files

> The tool has ability to lint your configuration files before running any workloads on Google Cloud Build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tool has the ability to lint your configuration files before running any workloads on Google Cloud Build.
```

> When you run the tool, it checks your `cloudbuild.yaml` along with `variants.yaml` file, if you meet all requirements in order for it to work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you run the tool, it checks your `cloudbuild.yaml` along with the `variants.yaml` file, to confirm that you meet all the requirements for it to work.
```

> Additionally, you can use the tool [gcbuild-lint](./tools/gcbuild-lint) if you want to run only the validation checks. This tool is recommended for CI environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, you can use the tool [gcbuild-lint](./tools/gcbuild-lint), if you want to run only the validation checks. This tool is recommended for the CI environments.
```
